PETE LEPAGE: Web apps
can now communicate
with nearby Bluetooth
low energy devices
using the Web Bluetooth API.
Position sticky
is back, making it
easy to create elements that
scroll normally until sticking
to the top of the viewport.
And HTML5, by default,
is enabled for all users.
I'm Pete LePage.
Let's dive in and see what's
new for developers in Chrome 56.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
Until, now the ability to
interact with Bluetooth devices
has been possible
only for native apps.
With Chrome 56, your
web app can communicate
with nearby Bluetooth
low energy devices
in a secure and private manner
using the Web Bluetooth API.
The Web Bluetooth API
uses the GATT protocol,
which enables your app
to connect to devices
such as light bulbs, toys,
heart rate monitors, LED
displays, and more, with just
a few lines of JavaScript.
Web Bluetooth can also be
combined with physical web
beacons to discover and
control nearby devices.
Francois has a great
article on updates.
And be sure to check out some
of the cool demos that go along
with it.
Previously, building
content headers
that scrolled normally
until sticking
to the top of the
viewport required
listening to scroll
event and switching
an element's position
from relative
to fixed at a
specified threshold.
It was difficult to
synchronize and often resulted
in small visual jumps.
Chrome now supports
CSS position sticky,
a new way to position elements.
An element that is position
sticky starts relative,
but becomes fixed after
the element reaches
a certain scroll position.
Simply set position sticky
and set a threshold for it.
Paul Kinlan has an
update post about it
linked in the description.
Last August, we
announced that we'd
be moving to HTML5 by default
to offer a safer and more
power-efficient experience.
This change disables
the Adobe Flash Player
unless there's a user indication
that they want Flash content
on specific sites.
And eventually, all websites
will require the user's
permission to run Flash.
In Chrome 56, HTML5,
by default, has
been enabled for
all users, which
means that they will be
prompted to run Flash
on a site-by-site
basis for sites
that they've never
visited before.
More details about how and
when users will be prompted,
and recommendations on how
to test your Flash site,
are linked in the
description below.
Of course, there's plenty more.
WebVR is available
as an Origin trial.
The WebGL 2.0 API
is now available.
And the Payment Request API
has a variety of new features.
Check the description for
more details and links
to documentation
and specifications.
If you want to stay
up to date with Chrome
and know what's coming,
be sure to subscribe
and follow ChromiumDev
on Twitter.
I'm Pete LePage.
And as soon as Chrome
57 is released,
I'll be right here to tell
you what's new in Chrome.
[MUSIC PLAYING]